[Music]
you mentioned Shaq you guys obviously
had a very very successful working
relationship I mean three consecutive
titles you know what more could you ask
for but I mean nobody makes any secrets
there just uh wasn't the close
relationship there that you might like
with teammates why do you think you were
unable to maintain that same working
relationship for longer this just wasn't
going to happen it's just not it's not
in the cards I mean I for I wanted
there's things that I wanted to do with
my career take my career to another
level um that I was just incapable of
doing as long as we were playing
together and which I was fine with doing
until I heard him say a few times that
you know Kobe's not going to be as
successful without me and you know this
that and the other and that kind of
became the chatter M so now once that
became a chatter like oh wait whoa whoa
whoa whoa no no no no no do this
especially for a guy who's hyper
competitive yeah yeah it just just
wasn't going to work so you know no
matter what happened even if we had won
that Championship just me being a free
agent there was just no way I had to
accept this Challenge and had to see
what I could do and you said that in
some ways part of the friction came from
you both being very similar type of
people in what ways well we're both
we're both alpha males man we both don't
mess around we don't be around the bush
you know
and one of the big problems that he had
with me is that I'm extremely brutally
honest with my guys you know and it's
just you know if a player's not working
as hard as he should I'm going to tell
them and you know and that includes
somebody who 73 400 lb how dides a
conversation like that go probably not
the smartest thing in the world to do
but you know right it is what it is
right how does a conversation like that
I mean do you just I somebody like him
the same way you would any other team oh
yeah I I don't pull any punches man and
I think that's why it's such a great
deal respect still you know from him to
me and vice versa is that he knows he
knows what I'm about he knows I'm not
going to sugarcoat things and I'm going
to be straight up and honest about him
any professional athlete I mean
everybody is criticized and I think the
more successful the athlete you are the
more criticism you receed or you said um
you know early on in an article I read
this is back from like your really young
days in the league that you were at the
time confronted by veteran players over
what they viewed as kind of selfish play
on the basketball court how much truth
do you think there was to that then I
think it's um it probably was some to
the extent of um when I would decide to
be aggressive and when you know it was
time to kind of more utilize my
teammates because I was Full Throttle
all the time and so you know they r viw
that that selfishness but the reality
was just decision making of when to
attack when to pull back when to trust
your teammates when to get this guy
going when to get that guy going and
then when it hit the throttle on attack
so I had to kind of figure out the
balance of you know the game mhm and
then when to go and when not to go cuz
at you know 19 20 years old man I was
Full Throttle man and what was that like
for you figuring out the balance of the
game it was fun I mean it was a great
challenge you know and it's um I think I
was very fortunate to have to try to
figur that out because most of my peers
never learned that because they didn't
have to you know they were on a team
that was you know happy to make it the
playoffs and that was the situation I
was in they they needed me to win a
championship and to do that they needed
me to figure out that balance and figure
it out ASAP M and I think because of
that it made me a much better player
what about figuring it out do you think
made you a better player I had I had
great coaching and Phil Jackson a text
winner text winner who you know I call
master Yoda and you called him even
before Phil Jacks even coach yeah
because I I recognized his his uh
intelligent level his genius and I
wanted to learn from him and it just so
happened he came and coached this the
following year and um I had a chance to
kind of really pick his brain and
understand the game and I think just my
basketball IQ went to another level
because of them and what was it you're
trying to learn the momentums of the
game and and when to use your teammates
and when to pick your spots and how to
pick them you know and how to read the
defense to take advantage of certain
situations and scenarios and
understanding the shot clock and the
timing and all this other stuff and and
um I was I was very I couldn't figure it
out on my own I mean I was very very
very fortunate to have film and
text for more clips from this interview
visit Graham Bens singer.com
[Music]